Update release process to guide team practice (#2174)
alphagov/govuk-frontend: docs/releasing/publishing.md

# Before you release a new version of GOV.UK Frontend

> 1. Coordinate the final cutoff by letting the GOV.UK Design System team know we are close to releasing at stand up. Once the team agrees on final cutoff, do not add any further major changes to the release. We can still add small fixes before step 6 as long as we notify the content designer and technical writer. However, we should try to avoid adding too many fixes in this way, as it requires us to repeat some of steps 2-5.

Reviewer: Would this work:

> Coordinate the final cutoff date by letting the GOV.UK Design System team know we are close to releasing at stand up. Once the agreed cut off date has passed, do not add any further major changes to the release.

It might help to clarify that by cutoff we mean a date rather than a process or other task.

Author: ```suggestion
1. At stand up, tell the GOV.UK Design System team we are close to releasing so we can coordinate the final cutoff date. Once the agreed cutoff date passes, do not add any further major changes to the release. We can still add small fixes before step 7 as long as we notify the content designer and technical writer. However, we should try to avoid adding too many fixes in this way, as it requires us to repeat some of steps 4-6.
```

> 1. Coordinate the final cutoff by letting the GOV.UK Design System team know we are close to releasing at stand up. Once the team agrees on final cutoff, do not add any further major changes to the release. We can still add small fixes before step 6 as long as we notify the content designer and technical writer. However, we should try to avoid adding too many fixes in this way, as it requires us to repeat some of steps 2-5.

Reviewer: I think the steps that might be repeated are now steps 4-6.

> 1. Coordinate the final cutoff by letting the GOV.UK Design System team know we are close to releasing at stand up. Once the team agrees on final cutoff, do not add any further major changes to the release. We can still add small fixes before step 6 as long as we notify the content designer and technical writer. However, we should try to avoid adding too many fixes in this way, as it requires us to repeat some of steps 2-5.

Reviewer: It should be 'We can still add small fixes before step 7'

  - update the GOV.UK Design System to use the new release of GOV.UK Frontend (example card: [#1347](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-design-system/issues/1347))
  - create a card for the new release of GOV.UK Prototype Kit (example card: [#917](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/917))
  - update the GOV.UK Prototype Kit to use the new release (example card: [#923](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/923))

3. Add the issues to the [Design System sprint board](https://github.com/orgs/alphagov/projects/4).

4. Content designer to:
  - write announcements to post on Slack after we release:
    - GOV.UK Frontend (for example, [draft comms for the cookie banner component](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jVyMB7i94NOeflWaf3kE4Q4APMXGfluK3rOh74IHO08/edit))
    - GOV.UK Prototype kit
  - check who the release’s contributors are and if we have consent to include their name

5. Technical writer to finalise draft of release notes and get 2i on them.

6. Content designer/Designer to update community backlog with rationale for any decisions we made.

> 7. Coordinate the sign-off when you are ready to do the release. Once the team agrees, this confirms a code and content freeze. Use the []#design-system-team-channel](https://app.slack.com/client/T8GT9416G/G011V7RAAKY) to confirm sign-off from:

Reviewer: Broken link here.

Author: ```suggestion
7. Coordinate the sign-off when you are ready to do the release. Once the team agrees, this confirms a code and content freeze. Use the [#design-system-team-channel](https://gds.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=design-system-team-channel) to confirm sign-off from:
```

Author: Have replaced old link with one that has more robust syntax.

>   - Content and designers for guidance, examples and community backlog decision rationale

Reviewer: I think this should say 'Content designer and designers'

Author: I think the intent here was that 'Content' is shorthand for 'content designer + technical writer.' Would it be ok to write "Content designer, technical writer and designers"?

Author: ```suggestion
  - Content designer, technical writer and designers for guidance, examples and community backlog decision rationale
```

Reviewer: Yes that makes sense 👍

  - Technical writer and developers for Nunjucks macros
  - Developers for changes to GOV.UK Frontend
  - Technical writer for release notes

>   - Content/Community Manager for announcements and engagement activities

Reviewer: I think this should say 'Content designer/Community manager'

Author: As with the previous comment, 'Content' here was meant as shorthand for 'content designer + tech writer.' Would it be ok to write "Content designer/Community manager/Technical writer"? I don't always draft comms, but it's something I do occasionally (like with the ongoing branch-renaming work).

Author: ```suggestion
  - Content designer/Community manager/Technical writer for announcements and engagement activities
```

Reviewer: Yes, sounds good 👍

> **Note:** Before you go on leave, tell the delivery manager who will be looking after your work. This will help us to complete sign-off without fuss.

# Release a new version of GOV.UK Frontend

Developers should pair on releases. When remote working, it can be useful to be on a call together.

1. Checkout the **master** branch and pull the latest changes.

2. Run `nvm use` to make sure you are using the right version of Node.js and npm.

3. Run `npm install` to make sure you have the latest dependencies installed.

> 4. Create and checkout a new branch (`release-[version-number]`). See the [versioning documentation](versioning.md) for more information.

Reviewer: This is not to do with the changes in this PR but I just noticed a broken link here. This should be '/docs/contributing/versioning.md' 🔍

Author: ```suggestion
4. Create and checkout a new branch (`release-[version-number]`). See the [versioning documentation](/docs/contributing/versioning.md) for more information.
```

   When reviewing the PR, check that the version-numbers have been updated and that the compiled assets use this version-number.

11. Once a reviewer approves the pull request, merge it to **master**.

12. Checkout the **master** branch and pull the latest changes.

13. Log into npm (`npm login`), using team [credentials](https://github.com/alphagov/design-system-team-credentials/tree/master/npm/govuk-patterns-and-tools).

14. Run `npm run publish-release`. You will now be prompted to continue or cancel.

15. View the created tag in the [Github interface](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases) as follows:
  - select the latest tag
  - press 'Edit tag'
  - set 'GOV.UK Frontend v[version-number]' as the title
  - add release notes from changelog
  - attach the generated ZIP that has been generated at the root of this project
  - publish release

16. Run `npm logout` to log out from npm.

# After you release a new version of GOV.UK Frontend

1. Update the GOV.UK Design System, Prototype Kit and Frontend Docs to:
  - use a new release of GOV.UK Frontend
  - release a new version of the Prototype Kit

2. Post announcements of the release to:

>   - GOV.UK Frontend in the govuk-design-system channels on [GDS Slack](https://gds.slack.com/archives/CAF8JA25U) and [x-gov Slack](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/C6DMEH5R6)

Reviewer: Could we use the https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=govuk-design-system etc. syntax for linking to Slack channels? They're more readable and less likely to break in the future than the archive links.

>   - GOV.UK Frontend in the govuk-design-system channels on [GDS Slack](https://gds.slack.com/archives/CAF8JA25U) and [x-gov Slack](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/C6DMEH5R6)

Author: ```suggestion
  - GOV.UK Frontend in the govuk-design-system channels on [GDS Slack](https://gds.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=govuk-design-system) and [x-gov Slack](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=govuk-design-system)
```

>   - Prototype kit in the [prototype-kit channel](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/C0647LW4R) on x-gov Slack

Author: ```suggestion
  - Prototype kit in the [prototype-kit channel](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=prototype-kit) on x-gov Slack
```
